Let us have a look at the code.
Let us have a look at the pattern.
In fact,
it follows the same kind of pattern as the
MethodHandles patterns that we already saw.
Suppose we have a lookup object and a classical person bean,
we can create a nameVarHandle on the name field of that
Person class by using the findVarHandle,
passing the class as a parameter, the name of the field,
and the type of the field.
Most of the time,
you will want to invoke this findVarHandle on a private lookup object
since the field of a class are most of the time private.
If what you need to do is just read the value of the field,
you have a get method on this VarHandle object that is
going to return the value of the field, and this is the normal mode access.
But you also have volatile access with the getVolatile
method of this VarHandle object, passing the person as a parameter.
And this time,
the read you are going to do is a volatile read that is
guaranteeing that in concurrent access,
the value you get is the last value that has been returned
somewhere else on some other thread, including on another core of your CPU.
If you are not familiar with this kind of volatile access,
you can check my other course on Java concurrent programming.
This point is very precisely covered.
And the third access is a compare on get or compare and swap type access.
This is also the concurrent notion also covered in my
other course that I just mentioned.
And there are several methods to implement this.
The first one here is a getAndAdd that will read the value of the
age field and add one to it in an atomic way.
This is how you can use the concurrent pattern offered by this VarHandle class.
We will not go any further in that course on this point since concurrency is not really in the scope of this course.